in case people are not familiar with why
we introduced subdomain gateways I
prepared a short section with theory and
then a quick demo so I'm little I'm
working on ipfs mostly ipfs in in web
browsers the way we represent ipfs
resources and trying to make it better
and I was helping with implementing some
domain gateways in Co ipfs 0.5 so
something to I think the gist of the
problem is that the CID the content
identifier in ipfs it specifies the
content route most of people think about
files and directories so if you have a
website that is a directory and you have
index.html inside of that so the root of
that root directory has an identifier
that CID and that's the main directory
of your website so historically when you
put your directory with your website on
ipfs you could load it from path
gateways and those gateways look like
this you had a host name and of the
gateway and then namespace immutable
ipfs content identifier and that was the
route your content route and your
website was under that and the problem
was that was a single origin for all
content content routes which meant all
websites loaded from that gateway that
way are the same origin sandbox which
meant meant all the website had the same
cookie jar or local storage but also
they shared permissions for things like
camera microphone video and others
everything was called origin which was
really problematic if you granted the
permission to one website every other
IPS website had that permission another
problem was the content route was here
while the URL route is here and that's
what's the problem for
things like static website generators
which often created absolute links and
those links stops expected to root be
here not here and that introduced a lot
of problems for us
so subdomain gateways tackle both
problems
you still have your own hostname
however the namespace is moved to a
subdomain and the content identifier is
the very first label on the dns name
which means each cid produced unique
origin per every content root it's a
super important it aligns ipfs
abstractions with how web security model
works how its implementing web browsers
and we don't like thanks to this we
don't need to do any additional work it
just we get this isolation for free
every content identify route gets own
sandbox and it also means you can see
here the route is the same for both URL
and I P of s content route so no problem
with previewing static web site
generator builds and things like that so
that's fine how can you enable subdomain
gateway for your hostname so in go ahead
EFS 0.5 you got config file and there
was already a section about Gateway
configuration in this release we've
added public gateway section and it's
like a map which has a net hostname as a
key and the value is just an object with
additional flags and settings in this
example I'm using example that come as
the name of your gateway and all you
need to do is just like define the
hostname and then enable subdomains for
that hostname by setting houstab dimitru
and specify which paths should be
exposed on that hostname you may just
want immutable paths and you don't want
idns or maybe you want IDF s and i penis
and
don't want to expose a API that's up to
you so that's how you control it you can
also use one-liner on command line it's
multiple lines here but I just split it
for readability however you can do this
just that way and if I'm lucky I will
make a quick demo of this very thing so
let's say I have I have ipfs 0.5 and I
initialize new repo and I applied that
very config and just to verify I really
did that I can see in the configuration
you can see it's here so if I start my
node now it will get interesting because
it's now exposing Gateway on a local
host on this port so just to not to
bother you too much
I will jump directly to the browser demo
so if we open a chromium browser and use
this gateway port as an HTTP proxy
because that's an interesting feature of
go ipfs 0.5 the Gateway port is now HTTP
proxy which enables interesting things
like this one because you can see I'm
starting chromium with empty profile so
it looks like a new user
I set a proxy to be a local gateway and
then I just asked it open this URL so
the URL is the old-school power of
gateway at example.com its ipfs content
hash and then a path so let's open it
and let's open it in the new
screen and hopefully yeah that they did
not lie like this content discovery was
fast so that's a critical demonstration
I believe if you look closely at the
address bar what happened it's not the
URL I asked for I asked for his f1 and I
got something else so let's let's try to
figure it out why why why is that
did I copy it now I'm just
even bad at copying so let me cheat a
little bit I got this stuff for copying
here okay so this is the old school URL
for a path under a Spain and when you
set up your subdomain gateway it will
handle requests of the old gateways so
if you open it the CID will get moved to
a subdomain
but that's not the ruling thing it's
just like swapping places what's
interesting is that if you try to load
content that has and all CID V 0 the CID
V 0 are those hashes that start with Q M
everyone is familiar with them the
problem is those are in Baileys 58 and
those hashes are case sensitive and
browsers force lower case on the host
names which mean they will break the
hash if you put this case sensitive
representation in a subdomain so we
support
representing C IDs as base 22 however
people may still have those of the links
and they may want to switch to a new
subdomain gateway and they want the
links to still work so here you can see
if you open a old-school link with the
case sensitive hash it the subdomain
gateway the native subdomain Gateway
Ingo ipfs will automatically convert CID
V 0 to CID V 1 in vice versa - which is
safe for use
in subdomains and it will return that
to the browser as a redirect so that's
the main feature it works also for IP NS
names which can be represented as CL v
v1 in base 52 with Lee p2p key multi
codec feel free to explore I will stop
my demo here I will just point you in if
you are interested in running your own
subdomain gateway or gantry in general
enjoy IP office repo in dogs there's a
config file which has documentation of
all those options and the gateway public
gateways has a very long dog which is
not just description of the parameters
but it has at the very end Gateway
recipes so there are some pre-built
commands that you can just like run to
set up a specific type of a gateway that
you want not just like sub domain but
also if you want to just host the DNS
link without housing public hashes of
other people there are already examples
there that's it on my end